The Hadoop Ecosystem: So Much free Stuff!
How did the big data
open-source movement begin?
In 2004 Google published
a paper about their
in-house processing framework
they called MapReduce.
The next year,
Yahoo released an open-source
implementation based on this
framework called Hadoop.
In the following years,
other frameworks and
tools were released to the community
as open-source projects.
These frameworks provided new
capabilities missing in Hadoop,
such as SQL like querying or
high level scripting.
Today, there are over 100
open-source projects for
big data and
this number continues to grow.
Many rely on Hadoop, but
some are independent.
With so many frameworks and tools
available, how do we learn what they do?
We can organize them with a layer diagram
to understand their capabilities.
Sometimes we also used the term
stack instead of a layer diagram.
In a layer diagram,
a component uses the functionality or
capabilities of the components
in the layer below it.
Usually components at the same
layer do not communicate.
And a component never assumes a specific
tool or component is above it.
In this example,
component A is in the bottom layer,
which components B and C use.
Component D uses B, but not C.
And D does not directly use A.
Let's look at one set of tools in
the Hadoop ecosystem as a layer diagram.
This layer diagram is organized
vertically based on the interface.
Low level interfaces, so storage and
scheduling, on the bottom.
And high level languages and
interactivity at the top.
The Hadoop distributed file system,
or HDFS, is the foundation for
many big data frameworks, since it
provides scaleable and reliable storage.
As the size of your data increases,
you can add commodity hardware
to HDFS to increase storage capacity so
it enables scaling out of your resources.
Hadoop YARN provides
flexible scheduling and
resource management over the HDFS storage.
YARN is used at Yahoo to schedule
jobs across 40,000 servers.
MapReduce is a programming model
that simplifies parallel computing.
Instead of dealing with the complexities
of synchronization and scheduling, you
only need to give MapReduce two functions,
map and reduce, as you heard before.
This programming model is so
powerful that Google previously
used it for indexing websites.
MapReduce only assume a limited
model to express data.
Hive and Pig are two additional
programming models on
top of MapReduce to augment
data modeling of MapReduce
with relational algebra and
data flow modeling respectively.
Hive was created at
Facebook to issue SQL-like
queries using MapReduce
on their data in HDFS.
Pig was created at Yahoo to model data
flow based programs using MapReduce.
Thanks to YARN stability
to manage resources,
not just for MapReduce but
other programming models as well.
Giraph was built for
processing large-scale graphs efficiently.
For example, Facebook uses Giraph to
analyze the social graphs of its users.
Similarly, Storm, Spark,
and Flink were built for
real time and
in memory processing of big data on
top of the YARN resource scheduler and
HDFS.
In-memory processing is a powerful way of
running big data applications even faster,
achieving 100x's better performance for
some tasks.
Sometimes, your data or
processing tasks are not easily or
efficiently represented using the file and
directory model of storage.
Examples of this include collections
of key-values or large sparse tables.
NoSQL projects such as Cassandra,
MongoDB, and HBase handle these cases.
Cassandra was created at Facebook,
but Facebook also used HBase for
its messaging platform.
Finally, running all of these tools
requires a centralized management system
for synchronization, configuration and
to ensure high availability.
Zookeeper performs these duties.
It was created by Yahoo to wrangle
services named after animals.
A major benefit of the Hadoop ecosystem
is that all these tools
are open-source projects.
You can download and use them for free.
Each project has a community of users and
developers that
answer questions, fix bugs and
implement new features.
You can mix and match to get only
the tools you need to achieve your goals.
Alternatively, there are several
pre-built stacks of these tools
offered by companies such as Cloudera,
MAPR and Hortonworks.
These companies provide the core
software stacks for free and
offer commercial support for
production environments.
As a summary, the Hadoop ecosystem
consists of a growing number
of open-source tools.
Providing opportunities to
pick the right tool for
the right tasks for
better performance and lower costs.
We will reveal some of these
tools in further detail and
provide an analysis of when to use
which in the next set of lectures.